README.md, before:

# UII R and Big Data

Course content for the R and Big Data class 2019 at UII.

- course R and Big Data
	- [course introduction](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Janow5MBlnGeDYByCfscHlnpRBeZad_F7ZpRWOiCjRM/edit?usp=sharing)
	- [basics](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1OVm1juqVPJbD7y_Ge3jyowmomvgMASbO1wT-caJrMrA/edit?usp=sharing)
	- [recap tidyverse](course-content/recap-3tidyverse_intro.Rmd)
	- [R web scraping](course-content/r-webscraping.Rmd)
	- [R web scraping advanced](course-content/r-webscraping-advanced.Rmd)
	- [introduction to distributed computing (hadoop & spark)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1jDdSITm5Rlf3Dnb1FpFlY84MG9i0hWJNRwrrlAlBBT0/edit?usp=sharing)
	- [connecting R and spark](course-content/0_connectingRandSpark.Rmd)
	- [practical intro to dataframes](course-content/1_dataframes_intro.Rmd)
	- [partitioning, UDF and joins](course-content/2_dataframes_partition_join_udf.Rmd)
	- [scala UDF](course-content/3_scala_udf.Rmd)
	- [distributed ML](course-content/4_machine_learning.Rmd)
	- [applications geospatial](course-content/5_applications_geospatial.Rmd)
	- [streaming and shiny](course-content/6_streaming_shiny.Rmd)
	- [streaming advanced (sliding windows, joins)](course-content/7_streaming_advanced.Rmd)
	- project 1
	  - setting up a database in docker
	  - connecting with spark to it and reading data
	- project 2
	  - https://medium.com/@dawid.rutowicz/cleanframes-data-cleansing-library-for-apache-spark-eaae526ee958 take a dataset of your choice
- workshop
- [faculty talk](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RBh-fe3DnwvgAzZ4xiovzKrrn811abraUIlJlX3TFms/edit?usp=sharing)

## useful tools for the presentation:
- https://doitlive.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
- https://undraw.co/

Commit message:

update spark, add databricks example

README.md, after:

# UII R and Big Data

Course content for the R and Big Data class 2019 at UII.

- course R and Big Data
	- [course introduction](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Janow5MBlnGeDYByCfscHlnpRBeZad_F7ZpRWOiCjRM/edit?usp=sharing)
	- [basics](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1OVm1juqVPJbD7y_Ge3jyowmomvgMASbO1wT-caJrMrA/edit?usp=sharing)
	- [recap tidyverse](course-content/recap-3tidyverse_intro.Rmd)
	- [R web scraping](course-content/r-webscraping.Rmd)
	- [R web scraping advanced](course-content/r-webscraping-advanced.Rmd)
	- [introduction to distributed computing (hadoop & spark)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1jDdSITm5Rlf3Dnb1FpFlY84MG9i0hWJNRwrrlAlBBT0/edit?usp=sharing)
	- connect R and spark (quickstart in the cloud)
	  - [databricks community edition](https://community.cloud.databricks.com)
	  - import sample notebook [https://docs.databricks.com/_static/notebooks/sparklyr.html](https://docs.databricks.com/_static/notebooks/sparklyr.html)
	- [connecting R and spark](course-content/0_connectingRandSpark.Rmd)
	- [practical intro to dataframes](course-content/1_dataframes_intro.Rmd)
	- [partitioning, UDF and joins](course-content/2_dataframes_partition_join_udf.Rmd)
	- [scala UDF](course-content/3_scala_udf.Rmd)
	- [distributed ML](course-content/4_machine_learning.Rmd)
	- [applications geospatial](course-content/5_applications_geospatial.Rmd)
	- [streaming and shiny](course-content/6_streaming_shiny.Rmd)
	- [streaming advanced (sliding windows, joins)](course-content/7_streaming_advanced.Rmd)
	- project 1
	  - setting up a database in docker
	  - connecting with spark to it and reading data
	- project 2
	  - https://medium.com/@dawid.rutowicz/cleanframes-data-cleansing-library-for-apache-spark-eaae526ee958 take a dataset of your choice
- workshop
- [faculty talk](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RBh-fe3DnwvgAzZ4xiovzKrrn811abraUIlJlX3TFms/edit?usp=sharing)

## useful tools for the presentation:
- https://doitlive.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
- https://undraw.co/
